# Alterations

Alterations apply a behaviour to a sprite. The first example below demonstrations how a rotation is added to a sprite. In the example, when the rotation ends it automatically attaches a reverse rotation, which in turn re-attaches the original rotation. The creates a back-and-forth rotation of the sprite.

```
create sprite from triangle.png as spinner
  where x=250 y=250 center=auto
  having alt=ThisWay
end
create routine as Start
  launch spinner
end
create rotation as ThisWay
  where speed=130 distance=135 completion=ThatWay
end
create rotation  as ThatWay 
  where speed=-130 distance=135 completion=ThisWay
end
```

> [!NOTE]
> Try out code samples at https://canvaslanguage.com/studio/github-examples.
> Paste the code samples into the box under that "Advanced" tab,
> then push the "Rec" button to view the animation.

All alterations have a **completion** property which can either specify the name of a routine, the name of an alteration, or a **sub** command. A **sub** command allows you to define an unnamed alteration or routine in-place.

For example:
```
create sprite from triangle.png as spinner
  where x=250 y=250 center=auto
  having alt=(sub
    create rotation as ThisWay
      where speed=130 distance=135 completion=(sub
    create rotation
      where speed=-130 distance=135 completion=ThisWay
    end) end)
end
create routine as Start
  launch spinner
end
```

# List of Alterations

The following alterations can be added to sprites.

[**Bezier**](Alterations/Bezier.md)
 - Move a sprite along a Bezier curve

[**Fade**](Alterations/Fade.md)
 - Change the transparency of a sprite over a given timeframe

[**Flipbook**](Alterations/Flipbook.md)
 - Change the image of the sprite over time, like a flipbook

[**Pursuit**](Alterations/Pursuit.md)
 - Move one sprite towards another

[**Range**](Alterations/Range.md)
 - Triggers a completion event when another sprite enters a specified range

[**Reveal**](Alterations/Reveal.md)
 - Reveal a sprite from one of the four directions as if it is coming from behind an invisible wall

[**Rotation**](Alterations/Rotation.md)
 - Rotate a sprite around its center point

[**Scale**](Alterations/Scale.md)
 - Scales a sprite over time

[**Shear**](Alterations/Shear.md)
 - Applies a shearing effect to the sprite

[**Slide**](Alterations/Slide.md)
 - Slide a sprite in a given direction

[**Translation**](Alterations/Translation.md)
 - Move a sprite to a given x/y coordinate

[**Vector**](Alterations/Vector.md)
 - Move a sprite in the direction of its **angle** property

[**Wait**](Alterations/Wait.md)
 - Waits don't alter a sprite, but instead act as a timer, calling a completion event when the time has elapsed


